ES? Now & Future


ES stands for ECMAScript. 
ECMAScript is a scripting language specification standardized by Ecma International 
in ECMA-262 and ISO/IEC 16262. 

It was created to standardize JavaScript, so as to foster multiple independent implementations.
 JavaScript has remained the best-known implementation of ECMAScript 
 since the standard was first published,
  with other well-known implementations including JScript and ActionScript.

What is ES5 in javascript?

ECMAScript 5 (ES5) is the fifth major revision to the ECMAScript standard. 
It was standardized in 2009. 
ES5 added several new features to the language, 
most notably the ability to define properties on objects with getters and setters, a
nd the ability to define properties that are non-enumerable. 
ES5 also added several new methods to the Array object, including map, reduce, and filter. 
ES5 also added a strict mode, which is a way to opt in to a restricted variant of JavaScript.


ES version | Release date | Features
---|---|----
ES1 | 1997 | First edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES2 | 1998 | Second edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES3 | 1999 | Third edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES4 | 2008 | Fourth edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES5 | 2009 | Fifth edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES6 | 2015 | Sixth edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES7 | 2016 | Seventh edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES8 | 2017 | Eighth edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES9 | 2018 | Ninth edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES10 | 2019 | Tenth edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES11 | 2020 | Eleventh edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES12 | 2021 | Twelfth edition of the ECMAScript standard
ES13 | 2022 | Thirteenth edition of the ECMAScript standard

information about ECMAScript
ECMAScript (/ˈɛkməskrɪpt/; ES) is a JavaScript standard intended to ensure the interoperability of web pages across different browsers. 
It is standardized by Ecma International in the document ECMA-262. ECMAScript. Paradigm. Multi-paradigm: prototype-based, functional, imperative.

ECMAScript is a scripting language that is standardized by the European Computer Manufacturers Association (ECMA). 
It is the standard scripting language for web browsers and is used to create dynamic, interactive web pages.

Here are some key facts and information about ECMAScript:

History: 
ECMAScript was first introduced in 1997, and its latest version as of 2021 is ECMAScript 2021.

Features: 
ECMAScript is a high-level, interpreted language with support for 
variables, functions, arrays, objects, loops, and conditional statements. 
It also supports features like arrow functions, template literals, classes, modules, and more.

Browser compatibility: 
ECMAScript is supported by all major web browsers, including Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge, and Opera.

Frameworks and libraries: 
There are many frameworks and libraries that are built on top of ECMAScript, 
such as Angular, React, Vue, and Ember.

Transpilation: 
Not all browsers support the latest version of ECMAScript, 
so developers often use transpilation tools like Babel to 
convert ECMAScript code into an older version that is compatible with more browsers.

Specification: 
The ECMAScript specification is maintained by the ECMA International standards organization,
 which releases new versions of the standard on a yearly basis.

Overall, ECMAScript is a powerful and versatile language that is essential for 
building modern web applications. It provides developers with the tools and features they need to 
create dynamic, interactive web pages that are fast, responsive, and user-friendly.


why we should use ES6?
It allows you to write less code and do more. ES6 introduces us to many great features 
like arrow functions, template strings, class destruction, Modules… and more.

